Vue js is progressive javascript framework
for building user interfaces.
It is simple lightweight flexible and very performance
while still providing a lot of features and option
tools that can help us build a modern web application efficiently.
In this section we will met the library and after
a brief interaction we will start creating our
first vue js application. Vue js focus on a view layer its
core library focus mainly on view layer of the application
and it's also perfectly capable to build
a single page application or SPA
Vue js is progressive framework that means vue js
is design from the ground up to be incrementally
adaptable with a core library focused on user interfaces
that you can use in existing projects to make
your application more interactive.
You can make from the small app all the way up
to the large and sophisticated web applications.
Vue js relative newcomer in the javascript frontend landscape but now it's very popular javascript frontend framework and widely
used across the world for web development. Why vue js?
Getting up and running with the vue js is quite simple.
You don't need to use a module bundler like web pack
because the core library doesn't have any dependency.
Just include the vue js core the library from cdn
into your page and you're ready to get started.
If you know HTML and Javascript reasonably well
you'll find that vue js has a low learning curve
it shouldn't take you long at all.
The vue documentation is so detail easy to understand
and includes various code examples.
All right there's a brief introduction about vue js
let's finally start and build our first vue js application.
Firstly let's open the vue js official homepage.
vue js dot org and here we can hit this get this get started button
And this will take us to vue js guide.
Here let's navigate to installation menu
and then here we'll got a couple of
different options how to install vue js
For now let's use the simplest one which is using cdn.
Here you can grab this script or you can also copy the latest version of vue js url from
js deliver cdn
here you can also copy the url from unpackage or cdn js.
Here
I also open online editor called js fiddle.
You can access it in js fiddle dot net
So this editor is web editor where we can play around with
HTML css and javascript and we can also see the
output in one page. Here in HTML section let's
type script colon src then hit tab
paste the URL and remove the forward slash in the end.
And with that we include the vue js and we can
now use it and build our first vue js application.
Here let's add a div and give id attribute
app or whatever name you like.
And then here in javascript section we
need to instanciate a new vue instance.
We can do that by saying new vue. This instance has one
major job control the HTML code which then render to
the screen.
Now in order to let the vue instance do that we
have to pass in an option object as an argument.
This object is central in vue and define and control
data and behavior. It contains all the information
needed to create vue instance and components.
For now let's specify el property which accepts
a selector or an element as an argument.
Here we can say hash tag app which will return
the element in the page with app as the identifier
With that everything that we will write inside the
div with the id as app will be under controlled by
this vue instance. And with under control I
mean we can then change it or manipulate it
through this vue instance.
So here in this div let's add a heading 1
and then here let's make javascript expression
and output the result to the heading. Here
vue js have special syntax to output something double
curly braches opening and closing and in-between
I'll write Hello plus world
This is normal way to declare a literal string in javascript
here we just concatenate two strings and display the result.
So if we hit the run button
here in the output we'll have Hello world message
now
vue js also has special property called data which
accepts object. Here we store all data that we want
to use in this vue instance.
Here I'll define message
and I'll cut this message
and paste in this message
property.
Here I can call the message like this
here we only need to call message and vue js will look
into this data object find the message property and
parse it in HTML code.
If we now hit the run button
we will get the same thing. Now if I change the message to hello
vue js and then hit the run button again
you can see it reflect the chance there. Alright
we've completed our first step into vue js world and
are now able to build a simple vue js application.
In the next lesson I'm going to show you how the set up vue js locally.